♪ Thank you for being a friend ♪
♪ Traveled down the road
And back again ♪
♪ Your heart is true ♪
♪ You're a pal and a confidante ♪
♪ And if you threw a party ♪
♪ Invited everyone you knew ♪
♪ You would see the biggest gift
Would be from me ♪
♪ And the card attached would say ♪
♪ Thank you for being a friend ♪
(calm music playing)
For crying out loud.
Where is he now?
He'll never finish
this remodeling job.
-Dorothy, relax. He'll be back.
-The man's a thief.
I haven't seen a crime like this
in a garage
since the St. Valentine's day
massacre.
Ma, you did not see
the St. Valentine's day massacre.
Right. I was in the movies
that day, all day.
Hi, ladies.
Looks nice, doesn't it?
No, Ernie. It looks exactly
as it did last week.
When will this garage
look like a guest room?
I don't know.
I meant my new suit.
Ernie, this is serious.
We have family
coming in a few weeks,
and you promised us
it would be finished.
Mrs. Devereaux,
do you want it fast or good?
Before you answer that,
the man's talking
about a guest room.
If we don't start seeing results,
you're out of here!
It's hard to find a good contractor.
Yes. You're living proof.
Ernie, she didn't mean that.
She just got up on the wrong side
of a cold, lonely, empty bed.
That good-looking lady sleeps
alone? I'm shocked.
You're letting a man with taste like
that remodel our garage?
He's got us over a barrel.
I remember the last time
a man had me over a barrel.
I was at a keg party at the marina--
Blanche, we have a guest.
Girls, pour yourself some champagne.
We're celebrating Al's retirement.
You finally went through with it.
I finally called it
quits at the deli.
Sold it all, lox, stock, and barrel.
Get it? Lox.
He made up that joke yesterday,
but it's just as funny now.
Some jokes are timeless.
Tell me, what do you intend
doing with your retirement?
Monday I'm going to sleep late.
-What's after Monday?
-Tuesday.
Basically I'm ready for anything.
Today is the first day
of the second half of my life.
Ooh, I got to run.
I'll see you tonight.
Bye, all.
-Bye, Al.
Bye.
Oh, girls, I'm so excited.
Now that Al's retired,
we'll have so much time together.
He's special to you,
isn't he?
He's more than special.
I think I'm falling for him.
But then, who wouldn't?
He's sensitive, he's caring,
and he thinks I'm neater
than hard salami.
Did he actually tell you that, Rose?
I shouldn't have repeated it.
It was said in a moment of passion.
Ok. See you mañana, ladies.
You've only been here 10 minutes.
So? I'll be back tomorrow.
Ernie, listen to me,
and listen good.
If you walk out that door right now,
you can forget about
ever coming back.
I sound like I'm on Ryan's Hope.
Fine. See you.
What will we do now?
This is such a mess.
Seems we have two choices,
1, beg Ernie's forgiveness, or
2, we can find another contractor.
Or 3, the Sicilian method,
torch the garage, collect insurance,
build a summer house
with an ocean view.
Personally, I like number 3.
I'm sorry but that's more
than we're willing to spend
for a guest room.
Yes, I do know the expression,
"you get what you paid for."
I also know the expression, "there's
a sucker born every minute."
Oh, yes.
I do know that expression too.
Dorothy, that was the
last contractor in the book.
I just don't care. I am so fed up
with all of these people.
I'm just ready to give up.
Dorothy, you can't give up.
You're no quitter.
Why, just think of the many times
you have been dumped by a man.
Did you quit dating?
No, ma'am.
You sank even lower,
scraping the bottom of the barrel,
facing certain humiliation.
And why?
Okay, thanks, Blanche,
I get the point.
No, I mean it, Dorothy, why?
-Hi, Rose.
-Hi.
Honey, what's wrong?
I spent the afternoon with Al.
-Well, what happened?
-Nothing.
Lately, all he wants to do
is watch television.
That happens
with people when they retire.
Maybe you should talk to him.
Maybe you're right.
I found the perfect guy
to convert the garage.
-Follow me.
-Ooh!
Everybody, this is Vincenzo.
Ma, who is Vincenzo?
Who he is doesn't matter.
It's who he used to be.
30 years ago, this man was one
of Italy's foremost architects,
respected the world over,
creator of some of Europe's
most beautiful cathedrals.
Isn't that right, Vincenzo?
Today he's a pathetic shell of a man
who spends all day trying
to look up women's dresses.
Relax. He doesn't speak
a word of English. Watch.
Vincenzo, you're a wrinkled
old pervert, right?
Sophia, Vincenzo can't do all
this work by himself.
He can't do any work.
He'll tell me what to do in Italian.
I'll tell you. You'll work.
Ma, forget it.
We're not carpenters.
It's worth a try.
After all, the job's
already half done.
So, do we got a deal?
Wait. What will he charge us?
I'll ask him.
(speaking Italian)
He'll do it for nothing.
He likes getting away
from the center.
He also likes working
and being in the company
of pretty young girls.
Oh, well, since he puts it that way,
how can we refuse?
It's a deal.
Good.
Here's a list of pretty young girls
he wants you to get.
(serene music playing)
(doorbell rings)
-Hi, Al.
-Rose, you look beautiful.
Oh, thank you.
I know we're just
going to the movies
but I felt like dressing up.
Oh, it's about the movies,
would you mind if we didn't go?
Well, no.
What do you feel like doing?
Why don't we just do
what we did last night?
We didn't do anything.
Sounds good to me.
Al, we have to talk.
Can't it wait
till after moonlighting?
There's a special episode
on tonight.
It's only been rerun three times.
Al, what has gotten
into you lately?
Before you retired you were
the most active man I ever knew.
I had to run to keep up with you.
Now you're nothing
but a couch potato.
You should do more, Al,
you've earned it.
Isn't there one thing you've always
dreamed of doing?
I always dreamed of retiring.
I just don't want
you to wake up one day
and think that you've missed
the opportunity
to do something really great.
Rose, it sounds like you're,
maybe just bored with me.
Look, let's take a rain check
on tonight, okay?
I'm feeling kind of tired anyway.
-Call you tomorrow.
-Al...
Al?
Damn.
(serene music playing)
-(speaking Italian)
-Before we begin.
(speaking Italian)
Let's make one thing clear.
-(speaking Italian)
-I am in charge.
-I am the boss.
-(speaking Italian)
-I am the master.
-I am the walrus.
Ma, either your Italian is rusty,
or he's the world's oldest hippie.
Can't we just get started, please?
(speaking Italian)
First we must inspect the workers.
Ow!
He pinched me.
It's a reflex. He's Italian.
(speaking Italian)
We'll start
with the simplest of jobs.
(speaking Italian)
Installing the window.
Dorothy,
you'll hold the window in place.
(speaking Italian)
Rose will hammer.
Blanche, you'll do the screwing.
He came up with that on his own.
(speaking Italian)
Drill a toggle bolt,
anchor with a 5/16th bit,
and miter cut
the quarter-inch plywood
after you attach the studs.
Only thing I recognized
in there was studs.
This isn't going to work.
Listen, it's impossibile.
(speaking Italian)
Vincenzo has a wonderful idea.
He'll bring in his own crew
to help finish the job
at no additional charge.
Why would he do that?
Because he's senile as a doorknob,
and stop asking questions.
Eh?
Hi, everybody.
Al, what are you doing here?
I thought about what you said.
You were absolutely right.
I've been wasting my life.
I'm so glad you feel that way.
There's one dream I used to have,
sailing around the world.
What better time to follow my dream
than during my retirement?
I'm going to do it.
You booked yourself on a cruise.
I bought my own boat
and hired a crew.
You what?
It cost my life savings,
but I don't care.
I'm sailing around the world
all because of you.
And I want you
to come along with me.
(serene music playing)
Rose, what in hell are you doing?
It is 2am.
I couldn't sleep, so I got up and
made a batch of Sparhuven Krispies.
It's an ancient Scandinavian
midnight snack.
I guess after a night
of pillaging and raping,
a Viking wants a little something
to go with his cocoa.
Well, they smell god-awful.
Just when you're ready
to throw up from the stench,
that's when they're done.
Who wants some?
Rose, if these had been
offered to the donner party,
they still would've eaten
each other.
Don't be silly, Dorothy.
They're delicious.
You just have to know
how to eat them.
Hold your nose with one hand,
and pop a Krispie in with the other.
Mm-mmm.
That tastes like cheesecake,
fresh strawberries,
and chocolate ice cream.
My gosh, you're right.
That is the best thing
I have ever tasted!
Oh! This is delicious.
Mmm.
Hi, Ma.
Give me a break.
You can't smell that from the hall.
Sophia...
Rose has been cooking.
Yeah, and it turned out perfect.
But I'm still upset.
Because you don't know
what to do about Al?
No, Blanche. She's upset
because Jimmy Swaggart
can't cover his motel bill.
Of course, I'm upset about Al.
I don't know what to do.
If a man asked me to sail
around the world--
Please. You can't get
asked out for coffee.
Sail around the world.
That'll be the day.
In fact, there's a line
waiting around the block.
We'll install a ticket machine
like the bakery's.
-Around the world, yeah.
-I get the picture, Ma!
I'm afraid I'm responsible
for making Al do something
he really doesn't want to do.
So, what? Maybe you were.
But it got him up off his duff.
What's wrong with that?
Absolutely the best thing
for him and for you, Rose.
Have you even considered
accepting his offer?
Oh, no. I couldn't.
I have responsibilities.
Haven't you ever done anything
just wild and crazy and impetuous?
No. I'm from St. Olaf.
We're forced to sign
a pledge when we're 15
that we won't do those things.
It keeps people from painting
their houses silly colors.
I don't know what to do.
I'll have to sleep on it.
Sleep on it. Men. Sex.
I listen to your sexual problems.
How about my sexual problems?
Ma, what is your sexual problem?
I don't get any.
I read in a magazine where a woman
is at her sexual peak at 83.
I read that same article, honey.
It was 33.
Really?
Then all those feelings I've been
having lately must be colitis.
Sorry I interrupted.
Good night.
(calm music playing)
(speaking Italian)
Here they are, Dorothy.
Vincenzo's new work crew.
Looks like the road company
of Cocoon.
Have a little respect.
These are all masters
of their crafts.
Hi, girls.
Who are all these old men?
The Osmond Brothers, Rose.
The years without Donny
have not been kind to them.
These are Vincenzo's friends, Rose.
Oh, that's right. I forgot.
I've had so much
on my mind lately.
Have you decided about Al?
No. I'm just as confused as ever.
(speaking Italian)
Vincenzo thinks he has
a solution to your problem.
Really?
Well, translate for me, Sophia.
Well, I'm a little bit rusty,
but I think he said,
picture it, Sicily, 1939.
The war is on.
A promising young architect
is offered a job
to spearhead construction
of a new wing at the Vatican.
Ma, you say your Italian is rusty,
but you know the word for spearhead?
It was my brother's nickname
for a while as a child.
Anyway, the young man is torn.
Taking the train to Rome means
running the risk of enemy bombs.
But staying home means passing up
a chance to make history.
He certainly packs a lot
into a few words.
Ah, shut up.
In the end, he chooses safety.
It's a decision he still regrets
half a century later.
His conclusion?
Life without risk is no life at all.
Sophia, tell Vincenzo
that's a wonderful story.
Tell him he helped me make the
most important decision of my life.
I'm going to call Al and tell him
I'll sail around the world with him.
Sophia, did Vincenzo
really say all that?
Of course, not.
He's a carpenter.
I'm a philosopher.
He wants everyone out
until the work is completed.
But why?
Because to an old guy
with cataracts,
you two look like
Swedish stewardesses.
Old age can play
a lot of cruel jokes.
Now come on.
(serene music playing)
Thanks for leaving me
at the parking lot.
It's not like any unsavory,
swarthy characters
hang around docks by night.
Ma, there's nobody here like that.
I know, but I gave it a minute.
I thought I'd get you a date
for Saturday.
Ahoy, girls!
Welcome aboard.
-Rose, you must be so excited.
-Oh, I sure am.
Listen, grab some champagne.
I want to find Al.
I want to say thanks.
-Ooh, I love champagne.
-Oh, me too.
The only problem is,
after a few glasses,
I'll kiss any man in sight.
(splash)
Man overboard!
That was just a coincidence,
Dorothy.
Hey, Al. I've been looking
all over for you.
Really?
I haven't moved from this spot.
There's something
I have to tell you.
Oh, please, there's something
I want to say first.
I want you to know that I am
so excited about going on this trip.
And I'm so happy that you chose me
for this adventure.
I love you, Al, and I'm ready
to go anywhere with you.
And the north star can be our guide.
I love you too, Rose.
That's not the north star.
That's the tower of the all-Spanish
radio station.
Fine. Much more reliable.
And it doesn't disappear
in the daylight.
Rose, I think I'm going to puke.
It was just a little joke, Al.
I laugh at all yours.
No, I'm serious. I'm seasick.
You mean it? We're still docked.
I can't sail around the world.
There's no adventure in me.
I'm sorry, Rose.
Well, don't be sorry.
Look what you were about to do,
what we were both about to do.
We got on the ship.
Most people never leave shore.
-You mean that?
-Of course, I do.
You and I have a lot of adventures
left in us.
So many things
we haven't tried.
Have you ever been to space mountain
at Disney world?
Imagine it, Al.
We go rocketing up and down,
and turn and turn, then zoom!
Plummet right back down
and come...
or we could just walk around
and get our picture taken
with Goofy.
(serene music playing)
Hi, girls. How do I look?
Where are you going all dolled up?
We're picnicking
at an outdoor concert.
-I didn't know al was a music lover.
-He isn't.
He just likes to see what picnic
meats are popular this season.
Come on.
Vincenzo says he's finished.
-He wants us to take a look.
-Oh.
Finally.
-I don't believe it.
-This is terrible.
Well, I'll admit it's a little drab,
but with some plants and some nice--
It's a garage, you twit!
Ma, how did this happen?
Vincenzo.
(speaking Italian)
It was a slight misunderstanding.
You see, in Sicily,
every region has its own dialect.
Actually, every town
has its own dialect.
Actually, every household
This also explains
why the Italian army
is as effective as a Jamaican
bobsled team.
(speaking Italian)
He's sorry he made the mistake.
He'll turn this back into a bedroom.
No. I could not live
through that again.
Thank him for his work
and say he must be proud.
Grazie, Vincenzo.
(speaking Italian)
Mia figlia, Dorothy.
Dorothy.
Dorothy, eh?
Ma.
I may have accidentally
promised your hand in marriage.
Dorothy.
Well, at least he's Italian.
(theme music playing)